README.md, before:

---
home: true
heroText: Our Way
actionText: Get Started →
actionLink: /#welcome
heroImage: /img/tao.svg
footer: Copyright © 2016-present Art / Earth / Tech
---

# Welcome

Welcome to the Art Earth Tech community.

## How to Read This 

There is no fixed teaching. Yet in spite of outward differences resulting from necessary adaptation to different situations, capacities of understanding and personality configurations, the real wisdom, the teaching of the awakening ones, is of one uniform flavor, the flavor of liberation. Just as many streams lead to the ocean, where they merge into the uniform flavor of salt, goes the ancient metaphor, so do the teachings of awakening lead to the ocean of awakening and merge into the uniform flavor of liberation.

When this essence is lost, and people enshrine relics of past method for a sense of personal satisfaction, righteousness, or comfort, then it is said that the medicine has become a disease. It is our practice to cut through all ploys of egoism in all its guises, “holy” or “profane,” to break up stultifying material and intellectual idolatry.

The wise enshrine the miraculous bones of the ancients within themselves; that is, they do not regard teachings of ways as an external body of knowledge or information to be possessed as an acquisition or believed or revered as inflexible dogma, but rather apply it as far as possible to themselves and their situations, vivifying the way of wisdom with their own bodies and lives, not just in their thoughts.[^1]

[^1]: Adapted from John Cleary's introduction to the Blue Cliff Record.

Commit message:

[home,config][s]: change to a tao title and tagline and rework "How to Read".
* Zen-ify and smoothen the prose of the how to read section and add a subtitle.

README.md, after:

---
home: true
heroText: The Tao of Art Earth Tech
tagline: A Guide to Our Way of Being and Doing
actionText: Get Started →
actionLink: /#welcome
heroImage: /img/tao.svg
footer: Copyright © 2016-present Art / Earth / Tech
---

# Welcome

Welcome to our community.

## How to Read the Way

*Or ... The Truth Believed is a Lie. Live the Way, do not Follow It.*

There is no fixed teaching. Nevertheless the real wisdom, the teaching of the awakening ones, is of one uniform flavor, the flavor of liberation. Just as many streams lead to the ocean, where their flavours are subsumed in the taste of salt so do the teachings of wisdom flow together into the ocean of awakening and become one with liberation.

When this essence is lost, and people enshrine relics of past method for a sense of personal satisfaction, righteousness, or comfort, then it is said that the medicine has become a disease. It is our practice to cut through all ploys of egoism in all its guises, “holy” or “profane,” to break up stultifying material and intellectual idolatry.

The wise enshrine the miraculous bones of the ancients within themselves; that is, they do not regard teachings of the way as an external body of knowledge or information to be possessed as an acquisition or believed or revered as inflexible dogma, but rather apply it as far as possible to themselves and their situations, vivifying the way of wisdom with their own bodies and lives, not just in their thoughts.[^1]

[^1]: Adapted from John Cleary's introduction to the Blue Cliff Record.
