team-member/README.md, before:

# Being a Team Member 

We are a small team of talented professionals with a wide range of skills and experience. We love what we do, and we do it with passion. We look forward to working with you. 

## Becoming a Team Member

If you not yet a part of the Life Itself team and you are interested, please see [work with us](https://lifeitself.us/jobs/) to check whether there are any open vacancies. You can also read more about our [collaborators](https://lifeitself.us/collaborators/) or [contact us](https://lifeitself.us/contact/). 

## Onboarding 

Welcome to Life Itself! 🌱 

If you are a new to the Life Itself team, this [Onboarding Guide](https://tao.lifeitself.us/onboarding/) provides you with a simple step by step process to get set up at Life Itself. It will introduce you to all the key systems and tools we use. 

## Working with us 

See [working with us](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us) to read about our work culture and philosophy, your responsibilities and how we communicate and work together. 

It also includes information on:

* [Getting paid](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#getting-paid) 
* [Travel](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#expenses-and-travel)
* [Time Off](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#time-off)

## How we work

We use a scrum-based agile process to deliver projects. Our [Project Management Guide](https://tao.lifeitself.us/project-management%20/) introduces the key principles, the roles, and the two-week sprint process that underlie this approach.

For information on our key tools and how we use them, read [Getting Work Done](https://tao.lifeitself.us/getting-work-done/).

Commit message:

(team member)(s): updated link to getting stuff done

team-member/README.md, after:

# Being a Team Member 

We are a small team of talented professionals with a wide range of skills and experience. We love what we do, and we do it with passion. We look forward to working with you. 

## Becoming a Team Member

If you not yet a part of the Life Itself team and you are interested, please see [work with us](https://lifeitself.us/jobs/) to check whether there are any open vacancies. You can also read more about our [collaborators](https://lifeitself.us/collaborators/) or [contact us](https://lifeitself.us/contact/). 

## Onboarding 

Welcome to Life Itself! 🌱 

If you are a new to the Life Itself team, this [Onboarding Guide](https://tao.lifeitself.us/onboarding/) provides you with a simple step by step process to get set up at Life Itself. It will introduce you to all the key systems and tools we use. 

## Working with us 

See [working with us](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us) to read about our work culture and philosophy, your responsibilities and how we communicate and work together. 

It also includes information on:

* [Getting paid](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#getting-paid) 
* [Travel](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#expenses-and-travel)
* [Time Off](https://tao.lifeitself.us/working-with-us/#time-off)

## How we work

We use a scrum-based agile process to deliver projects. Read [Getting Stuff Done](https://tao.lifeitself.us/getting-work-done/) for information on our key tools and how we use them as well as an introduction to key principles, the roles, and the two-week sprint process that underlie this approach.
