library/README.md, before:

# Library

We manage our library in [Zotero][]. Where possible we store digital copies of the texts along with the item. You can browse the library online here:

https://www.zotero.org/groups/1488090/life-itself/library

To access the texts:

* Install the Zotero client for your system from https://www.zotero.org/download/
* Register an account on Zotero
* Get added to the the Life Itself group. To do this please get in touch with the Ops team.

[Zotero]: https://www.zotero.org


## Adding books to the Library

You might get asked to curate a reading list or **bibliography** on a certain topic, or you might want to do so for yourself. This is how you should create a bibliography on the shared Zotero library. 

1. In the top left corner, you can click to add a collection.
2. Name your collection, e.g. 'Jainism'
3. Find publications that you want to include in the library. 
4. Find the ISBN for any publications you wish to include. 
5. Open the collection you have created in Zotero.
6. At the top of the page, there is an icon that looks like a wind a small green cross. Click it. Copy and paste in the ISBN for the publication you wish to include. This will add the metadata for the publication into the library. 
7. If you have the .pdf or .epub for the article / book, then drag it onto the file you have just created. You may want to 'right-click' and 'rename file from the metadata'.
8. Find any online versions of publications that are in your reading list, and then repeat Step 7. 
9. On the right of side of the screen, when you click on one of the titles in your list, you'll see that you can add an abstract. This helps other to see what the books / articles you have added are about. It is helpful to fill these in, and perhaps also indicate which titles in the reading list are the most worth reading.

Commit message:

[library/edit][xs]: Added note on Point 7 regarding .epubs

library/README.md, after:

# Library

We manage our library in [Zotero][]. Where possible we store digital copies of the texts along with the item. You can browse the library online here:

https://www.zotero.org/groups/1488090/life-itself/library

To access the texts:

* Install the Zotero client for your system from https://www.zotero.org/download/
* Register an account on Zotero
* Get added to the the Life Itself group. To do this please get in touch with the Ops team.

[Zotero]: https://www.zotero.org


## Adding books to the Library

You might get asked to curate a reading list or **bibliography** on a certain topic, or you might want to do so for yourself. This is how you should create a bibliography on the shared Zotero library. 

1. In the top left corner, you can click to add a collection.
2. Name your collection, e.g. 'Jainism'
3. Find publications that you want to include in the library. 
4. Find the ISBN for any publications you wish to include. 
5. Open the collection you have created in Zotero.
6. At the top of the page, there is an icon that looks like a wind a small green cross. Click it. Copy and paste in the ISBN for the publication you wish to include. This will add the metadata for the publication into the library. 
7. If you have the .pdf or .epub for the article / book, then drag it onto the file you have just created. You may want to 'right-click' and 'rename file from the metadata'. (If you have them, .epubs are better than .pdfs, as it makes for easier copying and pasting from the text)
8. Find any online versions of publications that are in your reading list, and then repeat Step 7. 
9. On the right of side of the screen, when you click on one of the titles in your list, you'll see that you can add an abstract. This helps other to see what the books / articles you have added are about. It is helpful to fill these in, and perhaps also indicate which titles in the reading list are the most worth reading.
