scqh/README.md, before:

# Life Itself SCQHs

## 2019 SCQH

### Situation 

Over the last century global population has quadrupled to 8 billion and our world is more complex and intertwined than ever before. Unprecedented technological advance has brought great material wealth, but even the rich are still not truly satisfied, happy and at peace. There is a fear of the future, a lack of visionary hope and we distrust ourselves as a species and our capacity to manage our world wisely and address collective challenges such as global warming, inequality and self-government.

### Complication

There is a growing intuition that something is deeply the matter, that we can be radically weller and wiser – both personally and collectively – than we are today. However, our current culture – grounded in materialism, technology and individualism – will not bring this  about; in fact, it presents clear and present dangers both on a personal level in terms of loneliness, acquisitiveness and anomie, and on a collective level in terms of environmental destruction and runaway technology (e.g. AI).

Achieving a radically wiser and weller world requires a breakthrough in individual and collective being. Though simple, this is hard because we “believe together” and it requires reaching (at least partial) consensus on foundational views and values such as the possibility of transformation (hope), the nature and primacy of (inter)being (rather than the primacy of structure or technology), and an interest and trust in big visions and collective action.

### Question 

What are the foundational views and values, and, separately and relatedly a big vision, and how do we bring forth a culture based on these foundations within our lifetime and the next six generations that is a) radically better than today in its capacity to generate flourishing communities and individuals, both within that culture and also more broadly in society; b) engaging in powerful, practical action on collective challenges; and c) pragmatically utopian in its commitment both to being wise itself and in causing a wiser and weller world for everyone.

#### Issue Tree

<iframe width='853' height='480' src='https://embed.coggle.it/diagram/XSXuEFj7lR6oRu4Y/6c948a4d386e0bef6181f8428ce4d3cb9bce0cb64a45e9444efa91ce19db1dd3' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Hypothesis

Within our lifetime and six generations hence, we will develop a federation of resilient, flourishing communities based on a shared culture (views, values and practices including the possibility of transformation, the primacy of (inter)being and getting stuff done). These communities will engage with broader society and ally with like-minded groups to foster a culture of wisdom and awakening [^1] that can transform society and will be committed to practical action, including large scale political efforts to address collective challenges.

#### Hypothesis Tree

<iframe width='853' height='480' src='https://embed.coggle.it/diagram/XScP2KMV3Tvd5Ec-/b4d25133e6806e7da61d0e705df4b37402e7382dbb402d1f1159d9372006db97' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Initial Planning

#### Complication

<img src="./Complication.png">

#### Questions

<img src="./Questions.png">

## 2017 SCQH

In October, we met on the beautiful hills of Tuscany. We reflected on our intuition that something is deeply the matter, and on the need for a big vision as well as practical actions to realize it (including the development of a large-scale political movement).

Here is our SCQH: Situation, Complication, Question, Hypothesis

### Situation

There is a growing intuition that something is deeply the matter, that, despite so much material progress we are not truly satisfied, happy and at peace; there is a fear of the future, a lack of visionary hope and we distrust ourselves as a species and our capacity to manage our world wisely; as the world has become more complex and intertwined it requires patience, rigour, qualitative observation, emotional honesty, deep-thinking, creative application and collective action and very few groups do that.

### Complication

There is a distrust of “big visions”, of any solution that isn’t material or technological; bold and powerful visions of the future are subject to knee-jerk dismissal or destructive debate which prevents their proposal and realisation; we need a breakthrough in individual and collective “being” but a breakthrough here is hard as it requires a consensus on foundational values and views including belief in the possibility of transformation [hope] and the nature and primacy of being.

### Question

What are the foundational values and views, a big vision and its associated roadmap; and how do we facilitate consensus on these and their implementation in the next fifty to two hundred years?

### Hypothesis

Develop a community of people based on a shared culture and shared views that include the possibility of transformation, the primacy of being, getting shit done and [tolerant universalism]; and with a focus on the development of a big vision and committed to powerful, practical action to realise it [including the development of a large-scale political movement] [on the timescale of our lifetimes and those of our children].

Rufus Pollock, Sylvie Barbier, Liam Kavanagh, Ninon Godefroy

[^1]: Shorthand for "waking up, growing up, cleaning up and showing up".

Commit message:

[scqh][m]: add intro, add some links, replace coggle iframe with links.

scqh/README.md, after:

# Reason for our Existence

This document spells out the reason for the existence of Life Itself. It uses the structure of "situation, complication, question, hypothesis (SCQH)" which is a format wee have found a powerful and useful methodology for diagnosing problems and hypothesing solutions. (If you are unfamiliar with SCQH please see http://playbook.datopian.com/scqh).

The SCQH is intended to set out in a succinct way why we exist and, implicitly, our theory of change. It is intentionally very short and therefore highly distilled (each part should be maximum paragraph and preferably a senctence and the whole should fit in a single page). We are working on a commentary that expands on some of the key points in greater detail.

Like most key documents our SCQH continues to be reviewed and revised and as well as the most recent version (2019) we have also included the previous version (2017).

## 2019 SCQH

### Situation 

Over the last century global population has quadrupled to 8 billion and our world is more complex and intertwined than ever before. Unprecedented technological advance has brought great material wealth, but even the rich are still not truly satisfied, happy and at peace. There is a fear of the future, a lack of visionary hope and we distrust ourselves as a species and our capacity to manage our world wisely and address collective challenges such as global warming, inequality and self-government.

### Complication

There is a growing intuition that something is deeply the matter, that we can be radically weller and wiser – both personally and collectively – than we are today. However, our current culture – grounded in materialism, technology and individualism – will not bring this  about; in fact, it presents clear and present dangers both on a personal level in terms of loneliness, acquisitiveness and anomie, and on a collective level in terms of environmental destruction and runaway technology (e.g. AI).

Achieving a radically wiser and weller world requires a breakthrough in individual and collective being. Though simple, this is hard because we “believe together” and it requires reaching (at least partial) consensus on foundational views and values such as the possibility of transformation (hope), the nature and primacy of (inter)being (rather than the primacy of structure or technology), and an interest and trust in big visions and collective action.

### Question 

What are the foundational views and values, and, separately and relatedly a big vision, and how do we bring forth a culture based on these foundations within our lifetime and the next six generations that is a) radically better than today in its capacity to generate flourishing communities and individuals, both within that culture and also more broadly in society; b) engaging in powerful, practical action on collective challenges; and c) pragmatically utopian in its commitment both to being wise itself and in causing a wiser and weller world for everyone.

#### Issue Tree

⚠️ Unfinished ⚠️

https://coggle.it/diagram/XSXuEFj7lR6oRu4Y/t/star-within-our-lifetime-a-weller-world-for-everyone-3

### Hypothesis

Within our lifetime and six generations hence, we will develop a federation of resilient, flourishing communities based on a shared culture (views, values and practices including the possibility of transformation, the primacy of (inter)being and getting stuff done). These communities will engage with broader society and ally with like-minded groups to foster a culture of wisdom and awakening [^1] that can transform society and will be committed to practical action, including large scale political efforts to address collective challenges.

#### Hypothesis Tree

⚠️ Unfinished ⚠️

See https://coggle.it/diagram/XScP2KMV3Tvd5Ec-/t/by-developing-a-big-vision-human-fulfilment-and-flourishing

### Initial Planning

#### Complication

<img src="./Complication.png">

#### Questions

<img src="./Questions.png">

## 2017 SCQH

See also:

* The original blog post: https://lifeitself.us/2017/12/05/foundational-scqh-situation-complication-question-hypothesis/
* The logic for our purpose and reason for our existence slide deck: https://lifeitself.us/2017/04/20/logic-of-our-purpose-and-reason-for-our-existence-scqh/

In October, we met on the beautiful hills of Tuscany. We reflected on our intuition that something is deeply the matter, and on the need for a big vision as well as practical actions to realize it (including the development of a large-scale political movement).

Here is our SCQH: Situation, Complication, Question, Hypothesis

### Situation

There is a growing intuition that something is deeply the matter, that, despite so much material progress we are not truly satisfied, happy and at peace; there is a fear of the future, a lack of visionary hope and we distrust ourselves as a species and our capacity to manage our world wisely; as the world has become more complex and intertwined it requires patience, rigour, qualitative observation, emotional honesty, deep-thinking, creative application and collective action and very few groups do that.

### Complication

There is a distrust of “big visions”, of any solution that isn’t material or technological; bold and powerful visions of the future are subject to knee-jerk dismissal or destructive debate which prevents their proposal and realisation; we need a breakthrough in individual and collective “being” but a breakthrough here is hard as it requires a consensus on foundational values and views including belief in the possibility of transformation [hope] and the nature and primacy of being.

### Question

What are the foundational values and views, a big vision and its associated roadmap; and how do we facilitate consensus on these and their implementation in the next fifty to two hundred years?

### Hypothesis

Develop a community of people based on a shared culture and shared views that include the possibility of transformation, the primacy of being, getting shit done and [tolerant universalism]; and with a focus on the development of a big vision and committed to powerful, practical action to realise it [including the development of a large-scale political movement] [on the timescale of our lifetimes and those of our children].

Rufus Pollock, Sylvie Barbier, Liam Kavanagh, Ninon Godefroy

[^1]: Shorthand for "waking up, growing up, cleaning up and showing up".
