hubs/README.md, before:

# Onboarding as a Hub member 

## About The Hubs

Hubs are central to Life Itself's mission to create a weller, wiser world. Hubs house members of the Life Itself community, and create a welcoming space to live and be, to share and connect. 

Life Itself has three hubs: London, Berlin, and and La Cheraille (a 30 minute train from Paris). Visit our website to [discover more about our hubs](https://artearthtech.com/hubs/). 


## Our Principles and Practices

Many of our principles and practices can be found in our [Residents' Agreement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/agreement/). Below is a summary of some of the most important:

### True Happiness

From Thich Nhat Hanh:

> Aware of the suffering caused by exploitation, social injustice, stealing, and oppression, I am committed to practicing generosity in my thinking, speaking, and acting. I am determined not to steal and not to possess anything that should belong to others; and I will share my time, energy, and material resources with those who are in need. I will practice looking deeply to see that the happiness and suffering of others are not separate from my own happiness and suffering; that true happiness is not possible without understanding and compassion; and that running after wealth, fame, power and sensual pleasures can bring much suffering and despair. I am aware that happiness depends on my mental attitude and not on external conditions, and that I can live happily in the present moment simply by remembering that I already have more than enough conditions to be happy. I am committed to practicing Right Livelihood so that I can help reduce the suffering of living beings on Earth and stop contributing to climate change.
> 
### Beginning Anew

From Plum Village's [_Extended Practises_](https://plumvillage.org/extended-mindfulness-practises/):
>To begin anew is to look deeply and honestly at ourselves, our past actions, speech and thoughts and to create a fresh beginning within ourselves and in our relationships with others. At the practice center we practice Beginning Anew as a community every two weeks and individually as often as we like.
>
>We practice Beginning Anew to clear our mind and keep our practice fresh. When a difficulty arises in our relationships with fellow practitioners and one of us feels resentment or hurt, we know it is time to Begin Anew. The following is a description of the four-part process of Beginning Anew as used in a formal setting. One person speaks at a time and is not interrupted during his or her turn. The other practitioners practice deep listening and following their breath.
>
>**Flower Watering**
This is a chance to share our appreciation for the other person. We may mention specific instances that the other person said or did something that we had admired. This is an opportunity to shine light on the other’s strengths and contributions to the sangha and to encourage the growth of his or her positive qualities.
>
>**Sharing regrets**
We may mention any unskillfulness in our actions, speech or thoughts that we have not yet had an opportunity to apologize for.
>
>**Expressing a hurt**
>We may share how we felt hurt by an interaction with another practitioner, due to his or her actions, speech or thoughts. (To express a hurt we should first water the other person’s flower by sharing two positive qualities that we have trully observed in him or her. Expressing a hurt is often performed one on one with another practitioner rather than in the group setting. You may ask for a third party that you both trust and respect to be present, if desired.)
>
>**Sharing a long-term difficulty & asking for support**
At times we each have difficulties and pain arise from our past that surface in the present. When we share an issue that we are dealing with we can let the people around us understand us better and offer the support that we really need.
>
>The practice of Beginning Anew helps us develop our kind speech and compassionate listening. Begin Anew is a practice of recognition and appreciation of the positive elements within our Sangha. For instance, we may notice that our roommate is generous in sharing her insights, and another friend is caring towards plants.
>
>Recognizing others positive traits allows us to see our own good qualities as well. Along with these good traits, we each have areas of weakness, such as talking out of our anger or being caught in our misperceptions. When we practice “flower watering” we support the development of good qualities in each other and at the same time we help to weaken the difficulties in the other person. As in a garden, when we “water the flowers” of loving kindness and compassion in each other, we also take energy away from the weeds of anger, jealousy and misperception.
>
>We can practice Beginning Anew everyday by expressing our appreciation for our fellow practitioners and apologizing right away when we do or say something that hurts them. We can politely let others know when we have been hurt as well. The health and happiness of the whole community depends on the harmony, peace and joy that exists between every member in the Sangha.
>

### Community

From the [Art Earth Tech manifesto](https://artearthtech.com/manifesto/):

>_A community for people seeking a wiser world_
>
>Though living in societies which have never been so rich our sense of purpose and connection is often missing. A growing number of us are seeking lives that are meaningful as well as productive yet we struggle to find a balance, finding ourselves trapped in conflict.
>
>With Art / Earth / Tech we want to offer a way to combine wiser and weller ways of living whilst remaining engaged in conventional society.
>
>Our approach focuses on fostering a community of people seeking a wiser world. We do this by providing space, a network and knowledge: 
>* Space in the form of physical places that can act as homes for our community members to work, meet and stay. 
>* Network in the form of gatherings that bring the community together to reflect, learn and connect. 
>* Knowledge in the form of education and research to develop and share ideas, approaches and best practices.
>
>We are practical and natural. We connect the ancient and the modern. Our interests ranges from nature to neuroscience, Dada to data. We seek harmony and balance: art and techne, earth and spirit, science and wisdom, freedom and discipline, mindfulness and intention. 


## Frequently Asked Questions

#### The following FAQs are addressed explicitly in the [Residents' Agreement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/agreement/):

* What's shared/common and what's private? 
* What time do we spend together? 
* Can I eat meat? Can I drink?
* Can my boyfriend/girlfriend stay?
* Can my friends visit me?
* How do you manage conflicts?
* What practices do you have?

#### What's the rent?

Rents vary according to the location and size of the room/apartment. In London, rents range from between £680-900/month. 

#### Do I get to own my space?
Please see the [Co-living model](https://tao.artearthtech.com/coliving) for details about AET's co-ownership vision. 

#### Can I make changes to the building/space?

From the [terms and conditions of residency](https://artearthtech.com/hubs/apply/):
>When leaving your residency we ask you to not leave any trace unless agreed, and put things back where you found them; to not colonise the space nor information (books, dvd’s etc.), and keep information, materials, equipment and spaces available as you found them.

#### Who do I talk to if I have a question?

Every hub has a dedicated manager whom you will be able to contact with any queries. 

#### What am I part of?

Art Earth Tech is on a mission to make the world a wiser, weller place. For more information, visit [the Tao](https://tao.artearthtech.com/). 

#### What is AET's business model / mission? 
For more information, please see the [Co-living](https://tao.artearthtech.com/coliving) and [Governance](https://tao.artearthtech.com/governance) models at AET.

#### How am I supposed to represent AET ? 

Please see the [Levels of Involvement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/governance/#levels-of-involvement) section of the Governance guide.

Commit message:

[update/consistency][s]: changing 'AET' to Life Itself

hubs/README.md, after:

# Onboarding as a Hub member 

## About The Hubs

Hubs are central to Life Itself's mission to create a weller, wiser world. Hubs house members of the Life Itself community, and create a welcoming space to live and be, to share and connect. 

Life Itself has three hubs: London, Berlin, and and La Cheraille (a 30 minute train from Paris). Visit our website to [discover more about our hubs](https://artearthtech.com/hubs/). 

## Our Principles and Practices

Many of our principles and practices can be found in our [Residents' Agreement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/agreement/). Below is a summary of some of the most important:

### True Happiness

From Thich Nhat Hanh:

> Aware of the suffering caused by exploitation, social injustice, stealing, and oppression, I am committed to practicing generosity in my thinking, speaking, and acting. I am determined not to steal and not to possess anything that should belong to others; and I will share my time, energy, and material resources with those who are in need. I will practice looking deeply to see that the happiness and suffering of others are not separate from my own happiness and suffering; that true happiness is not possible without understanding and compassion; and that running after wealth, fame, power and sensual pleasures can bring much suffering and despair. I am aware that happiness depends on my mental attitude and not on external conditions, and that I can live happily in the present moment simply by remembering that I already have more than enough conditions to be happy. I am committed to practicing Right Livelihood so that I can help reduce the suffering of living beings on Earth and stop contributing to climate change.
> 
### Beginning Anew

From Plum Village's [_Extended Practises_](https://plumvillage.org/extended-mindfulness-practises/):
>To begin anew is to look deeply and honestly at ourselves, our past actions, speech and thoughts and to create a fresh beginning within ourselves and in our relationships with others. At the practice center we practice Beginning Anew as a community every two weeks and individually as often as we like.
>
>We practice Beginning Anew to clear our mind and keep our practice fresh. When a difficulty arises in our relationships with fellow practitioners and one of us feels resentment or hurt, we know it is time to Begin Anew. The following is a description of the four-part process of Beginning Anew as used in a formal setting. One person speaks at a time and is not interrupted during his or her turn. The other practitioners practice deep listening and following their breath.
>
>**Flower Watering**
This is a chance to share our appreciation for the other person. We may mention specific instances that the other person said or did something that we had admired. This is an opportunity to shine light on the other’s strengths and contributions to the sangha and to encourage the growth of his or her positive qualities.
>
>**Sharing regrets**
We may mention any unskillfulness in our actions, speech or thoughts that we have not yet had an opportunity to apologize for.
>
>**Expressing a hurt**
>We may share how we felt hurt by an interaction with another practitioner, due to his or her actions, speech or thoughts. (To express a hurt we should first water the other person’s flower by sharing two positive qualities that we have trully observed in him or her. Expressing a hurt is often performed one on one with another practitioner rather than in the group setting. You may ask for a third party that you both trust and respect to be present, if desired.)
>
>**Sharing a long-term difficulty & asking for support**
At times we each have difficulties and pain arise from our past that surface in the present. When we share an issue that we are dealing with we can let the people around us understand us better and offer the support that we really need.
>
>The practice of Beginning Anew helps us develop our kind speech and compassionate listening. Begin Anew is a practice of recognition and appreciation of the positive elements within our Sangha. For instance, we may notice that our roommate is generous in sharing her insights, and another friend is caring towards plants.
>
>Recognizing others positive traits allows us to see our own good qualities as well. Along with these good traits, we each have areas of weakness, such as talking out of our anger or being caught in our misperceptions. When we practice “flower watering” we support the development of good qualities in each other and at the same time we help to weaken the difficulties in the other person. As in a garden, when we “water the flowers” of loving kindness and compassion in each other, we also take energy away from the weeds of anger, jealousy and misperception.
>
>We can practice Beginning Anew everyday by expressing our appreciation for our fellow practitioners and apologizing right away when we do or say something that hurts them. We can politely let others know when we have been hurt as well. The health and happiness of the whole community depends on the harmony, peace and joy that exists between every member in the Sangha.
>

### Community

From the [Art Earth Tech manifesto](https://artearthtech.com/manifesto/):

>_A community for people seeking a wiser world_
>
>Though living in societies which have never been so rich our sense of purpose and connection is often missing. A growing number of us are seeking lives that are meaningful as well as productive yet we struggle to find a balance, finding ourselves trapped in conflict.
>
>With Art / Earth / Tech we want to offer a way to combine wiser and weller ways of living whilst remaining engaged in conventional society.
>
>Our approach focuses on fostering a community of people seeking a wiser world. We do this by providing space, a network and knowledge: 
>* Space in the form of physical places that can act as homes for our community members to work, meet and stay. 
>* Network in the form of gatherings that bring the community together to reflect, learn and connect. 
>* Knowledge in the form of education and research to develop and share ideas, approaches and best practices.
>
>We are practical and natural. We connect the ancient and the modern. Our interests ranges from nature to neuroscience, Dada to data. We seek harmony and balance: art and techne, earth and spirit, science and wisdom, freedom and discipline, mindfulness and intention. 


## Frequently Asked Questions

#### The following FAQs are addressed explicitly in the [Residents' Agreement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/agreement/):

* What's shared/common and what's private? 
* What time do we spend together? 
* Can I eat meat? Can I drink?
* Can my boyfriend/girlfriend stay?
* Can my friends visit me?
* How do you manage conflicts?
* What practices do you have?

#### What's the rent?

Rents vary according to the location and size of the room/apartment. In London, rents range from between £680-900/month. 

#### Do I get to own my space?

Please see the [Co-living model](https://tao.artearthtech.com/coliving) for details about Life Itself's co-ownership vision. 

#### Can I make changes to the building/space?

From the [terms and conditions of residency](https://artearthtech.com/hubs/apply/):
>When leaving your residency we ask you to not leave any trace unless agreed, and put things back where you found them; to not colonise the space nor information (books, dvd’s etc.), and keep information, materials, equipment and spaces available as you found them.

#### Who do I talk to if I have a question?

Every hub has a dedicated manager whom you will be able to contact with any queries. 

#### What am I part of?

Life Itself is on a mission to make the world a wiser, weller place. For more information, visit [the Tao](https://tao.artearthtech.com/). 

#### What is Life Itself's business model / mission? 
For more information, please see the [Co-living](https://tao.artearthtech.com/coliving) and [Governance](https://tao.artearthtech.com/governance) models at AET.

#### How am I supposed to represent Life Itself? 

Please see the [Levels of Involvement](https://tao.artearthtech.com/governance/#levels-of-involvement) section of the Governance guide.

#### What is the difference between Life Itself and Art/Earth/Tech?

Art/Earth/Tech rebranded in 2020 to become Life Itself.
